
Thu Apr 11 11:22:12 GMT 2019

chicanery

crotch.

kefir,

avuncular

She filled another box with various items and knickknacks that she wanted to keep, then took a taxi back to Mosebacke.

She bought two Karlanda sofas with sand-coloured upholstery, five Po+nng armchairs, two round side tables of clear-lacquered birch, a Svansbo coffee table, and several Lack occasional tables.

She made her way through the entire warehouse and bought a good supply of sheets, pillowcases, hand towels, duvets, blankets, pillows, a starter pack of stainless steel cutlery, some crockery, pots and pans, cutting boards, three big rugs, several work lamps, and a huge quantity of office supplies folders, file boxes, wastepaper baskets, storage boxes, and the like.

That's what's so tragic. The sex mafia is a sleazy bunch of nobodies.

Imagine if bank robberies were handled with the same nonchalance.

The group gathered at around 6:00 p.m., and by the time dessert was served at 8:30 not a word had been said about the ostensible reason for the dinner.

She put the lamps in place and arranged the pots and pans, the crockery, and the cutlery in the kitchen cupboards and drawers.

Maybe it was the adult world which was belatedly pushing its way into her life.

on Grenada she had taken the ring out of her left labium it had chafed,

At last she crept under her new duvet.

Malm squirmed with annoyance. He was the only one in the room who did not know what that unusual situation was.

You all pretend to be cynics and nihilists, but it's your own morality that steers the magazine, and several times I've noticed that it's quite a special sort of morality.

She's a closet dyke. It's been going on since last autumn and it's getting a bit boring. But she's really luscious.

it was for grievous bodily harm when, several years ago, he had gone berserk in a bar in Stockholm.

Out of sheer cussedness she had tried both of their mobile numbers later that evening, and both were turned off.

In certain ways he was a fool, and in others so insightful that he seemed like an oracle.

that she had a need beyond what he could offer her, even in the form of his most imaginative acrobatic exercises in the Jacuzzi.

She also varnished the parquet floor in the living room.

Eventually the apartment was empty of everything except for a kitchen table of solid wood, much the worse for wear, that Mimmi intended to sand down and refinish, two stools that Salander had pounced on when an attic in the building was cleared, and a set of sturdy shelves in the living room that Mimmi thought she could repaint.

Mimmi shut up, not sure how to interpret Salander's brusque dismissal.

She must have pinched it from the apartment after he fell ill. As a keepsake?

She set out the chessmen in front of him and he recognized with shock that it was his own board.

One month ago he could hardly get out of his chair, which is partly due to muscle atrophy from being in bed for so long.

Of course I wish we had more resources and that the cutbacks didn't affect us, but I assure you that he's getting very competent care.

The doctor had observed that she did not treat him as you would an invalid on the contrary, it looked like they were squabbling all the time,

Whatever his physical handicap as a result of the stroke, there was nothing wrong now with his intellectual acuity.

He wore a denim jacket, black jeans, and high-heeled boots.

She was wearing dark jeans and sneakers with crepe soles.

She also heard the clacking of keys from Svensson's iBook.

She downloaded copies of some of Svensson's articles and found a photographic byline of him.

Some feminists found Johansson's conclusions significant, others criticized her for spreading bourgeois illusions.

And fuckups had been all too frequent lately.

He was the one who had done the legwork, cemented partnerships, negotiated deals, and made sure that the deliveries got to the right place.

A gabby street dealer who had found out far too much about the supply chain had almost implicated Svavelsj+| MC.

Methamphetamine was a discreet and easy-to-manage source of income big profits, small risks.

The business was small change, and liable at any time to set off hypocritical screeds in the media and debates in that strange political entity called the Swedish parliament.

Then he would have to take matters into his own hands and mete out punishment. And if the revelation was blatant enough, prosecutors and police would be forced to act otherwise parliament really would wake up and pay attention.

He put the car in gear and screeched off.

they had so dramatically botched their getaway that after only twenty-four hours the police were able to identify and arrest the gang members.

a Nazi prison organization that in turn was linked to the Wolfpack Brotherhood and to ex-con Hell's Angels clubs around the world, as well as to other cretinous violent Nazi organizations such as the Swedish Resistance Movement.

but she worked in the media and had just finished a book that had been in gestation for ten years, which dealt with the image of women in the mass media.

Blomkvist had meant to go home reasonably early, but many of the guests were old acquaintances he seldom saw. Besides, no-one jabbered on too much about the Wennerstr+|m affair.

He was flailing at the air as Salander then seemed to sink through the ground.

Just as Blomkvist got to him he turned and gave him a powerful backhand across the face.

She kept running out of his sight for another few yards and dived headfirst into a rhododendron bush alongside the building.

Salander was seething inside. She was so enraged that she tasted blood in her mouth. Now she was going to have to punish him.

I don't know what kind of a mess you've got yourself into, but the ruckus on Lundagatan was alarming.

There was a pack of Marlboro Lights, three Bic lighters, a box of throat lozenges, a packet of tissues, a toothbrush, toothpaste, three tampons in a side pocket, an unopened pack of condoms with a price sticker that showed they were bought at Gatwick Airport in London, a bound notebook with stiff black A4 dividers, five ballpoint pens, a can of Mace, a small bag with makeup, an FM radio with an earphone but no batteries, and Saturday's Aftonbladet.

He stubbed out his cigarette and put on his jacket, set the alarm in the office, and walked to the terminal at Slussen, where he took the bus out to the yuppie reserve in St+nket, near L+nnnersta Sound.

You're going to be the boss not an apparatchik and the editorial page will take care of itself.

Annika Giannini had drunk only light beer and refrained from any wine or aquavit with the meal.

He's becoming Swedish. Ten years ago it would have been grappa.

This girl is manically private. She was the one who was attacked. She'll have to make the report.

Bullheaded as usual, Annika said, patting Blomkvist on the cheek. What's the second problem?

Suddenly he felt an icy shiver run down his neck. He recognized the smell: cordite.

Everyone looked at the footprints. Blomkvist looked at his Italian loafers.

His whole evening, including the telephone conversation with Svensson, could be vouched for by a dozen members of the Giannini family.

The hiatus had lasted little more than a year.

They hit three bars in S+|dermalm before they were sufficiently tipsy to have a serious conversation, which took place on a park bench in Mariatorget around sunrise.

Before Blomkvist could reply, Berger appeared at the top of the stairs, tying the sash of a white terry-cloth bathrobe.

He felt only a huge emptiness, almost as if he were anesthetized.

You're shocked about the murders, but you are not privy to the editorial work, so you cannot comment on any speculation.

and he acquitted himself so well that for a time he was appointed division chief.

A journalist heard the comment and started asking questions, at which point the commissioner quickly repaired to his office.

Bublanski belonged to the S+|der congregation and ate vegetarian food if kosher fare was unavailable.

OK, you decide who you want on the team, but do it quickly. The brass are already after us. Bublanski took that to be an exaggeration. At this hour, the brass would be at breakfast.

He was a laconic and solidly built officer with such a short stubble of blond hair that at a distance he looked completely bald.

The first was a warning shot, the second was deliberately aimed but missed the man no easy matter since the distance was less than ten feet and the third shot hit him in the middle of his chest, severing the aorta.

On the minus side, he was egocentric and had a loudmouth sense of humour that especially bothered Bublanski.

Since the day he had first met Salander he had had a strong presentiment that her life was on a trajectory towards catastrophe.

She saw nothing untoward, but her apprehension increased.

Shit, Bublanski thought. Why didn't I come straight here this morning? But he only nodded and changed tack.

When I went up the stairs on Lundagatan I only saw him from behind, but he turned around when he clobbered me.

The kitchen chairs were painted in different pastel colours.

Black leather, patent leather, corsets, and fetishist whips and sex toys in a drawer.

Bjurman was her guardian and he owned the gun. Mmm ' , Bublanski said glumly.

Blomkvist had not slept for thirty-six hours, and the days when he could skip a night's sleep with impunity were long gone.

Do you like working at Millennium? he said, disconcertingly. I mean, you've been working for us for a year and a half now, but I've been running around so much that we've never had a chance to get to know each other.

But the police weren't taking into account whether she might have felt that her actions were justified or whether there might be some mitigating circumstance or a reasonable explanation for her having gone berserk.

Niklas Hedstr+|m was regarded as a rookie. He had been trained at the police academy, but just before he was due to take his final exams he learned that he had a congenital heart defect.

I tried a little light banter with her once, Hedstr+|m said, again with a hint of a smile. It didn't go so well. I thought she was going to bite my head off. She was a first-class sourpuss, and I hardly exchanged ten sentences with her.

Ekstr+|m and I decided that you two he pointed at Bohman and Hedstr+|m will move over to Kungsholmen and be seconded to Bublanski's team.

He was casually dressed in a beige corduroy jacket, jeans, and a light-blue striped shirt buttoned at the neck.

And you think that Lisbeth Salander is one of these loonies? Faste asked.

I don't want Lisbeth Salander to be harmed when you apprehend her ' but yes, in her case I would try to make sure the arrest is carried out with the utmost circumspection.

They had an ironclad connection to one victim and a possible connection via Blomkvist to the other two victims.

His Achilles heel was a microscopic hole in his pericardium that caused a heart murmur and meant that the wall of one chamber was compromised.

He thought the singer was a snobbish and standoffish old bitch.

He stole five of the most risqu+! images, which had obviously been taken by some lover.

Evil Fingers? Bublanski repeated. Seems to be something occult.

There are plenty of crazies around, but it can hardly be a standard motif among tattoo enthusiasts.

There was a brief CV in the papers, but my guess is that half of it is made up. So I should ferret out his background. Precisely. Everything you can find.

As he parked he saw that the cabin was a modern one-family home which looked to be habitable all year round. It had a view of the sea towards the Jungfrufj+nrden inlet.

Miriam Wu glowered at him. I don't give a shit what you believe. I haven't done anything illegal, and how I choose to live my life and who I have sex with is none of your business or anyone else's.

She had had no idea that Salander was under guardianship, or that in her teens she had been committed, or that she had copious psychiatric assessments on her CV.

Miriam Wu smiled sweetly when Faste gave her a filthy look and slouched after Modig into the corridor.

Oh, come off it. That surly cunt is squirming like a snake.

He wondered whether the famous Officer Bubble had something going on with that bitch. It wouldn't surprise him. He seemed thoroughly pussy-whipped by her.

After a while he took out his mobile and called Tony Scala, a freelance journalist who made a living writing drivel for men's magazines.

We found handcuffs, leather outfits, whips, and the whole shebang when we searched the place.

Miriam Wu contemplated a dropkick and an elbow to his nose, but she had the presence of mind to realize that it would only give them more photo ops.

Then she closed the inner door and lay on the bed, closing her eyes. Lisbeth, I'm going to wring your neck when I find you.

I'm inclined to agree with you. He can be a total prick, but he was genuinely outraged at the leak.

It was also within walking distance of the synagogue on St. Paulsgatan.

They stopped at the synagogue for a while and talked to the rabbi.

One of the girls was holding up a flag with a pentagram and another was making a sign with her index and little fingers.

The rest of the article was based on a deliberately provocative piece Wu had written six years earlier for a feminist fanzine.
