
Tue Jan 22 13:07:28 AEDT 2019
inheritance chain.
inheritance hierarchy,
“is–a” rule
substitution principle.
substitution principle. That principle states that you can use a subclass object whenever the program expects a superclass object.
object variables are polymorphic.
In this case, the variables staff[0] and boss refer to the same object. However, staff[0] is considered to be only an Employee object by the compiler.
arrays of subclass references can be converted to arrays of superclass references without a cast.
To make sure no such corruption can occur, all arrays remember the element type with which they were created, and they monitor that only compatible references are stored into them.
overloading resolution.
If you define a method in a subclass that has the same signature as a superclass method, then you override that method.
when you override a method, you need to keep the return type compatible. A subclass may change the return type to a subtype of the original type.
covariant return types.
static binding.
the method is private, static, final, or a constructor, then the compiler knows exactly which method to call.
When the program runs and uses dynamic binding to call a method, then the virtual machine must call the version of the method that is appropriate for the actual type of the object to which x refers.
the virtual machine precomputes for each class a method table that lists all method signatures and the actual methods to be called.
Dynamic binding has a very important property: It makes programs extensible without the need for modifying existing code.
When you override a method, the subclass method must be at least as visible as the superclass method. In particular, if the superclass method is public, then the subclass method must also be declared as public.

Wed Jan 23 09:39:33 AEDT 2019
2.3.1. Troubleshooting Hints
2.4. Using an Integrated Development Environment
2.4.1. Locating Compilation Errors
2.5. Running a Graphical Application
2.6. Building and Running Applets
most of the early hype about Java came from its ability to run applets inside a web browser.
Chapter 3. Fundamental Programming Structures in Java
3.1. A Simple Java Program
access modifier;
access modifier; these modifiers control the level of access other parts of a program have to this code.
Names must begin with a letter, and after that, they can have any combination of letters and digits.
You need to make the file name for the source code the same as the name of the public class,
it is remarkable that Sun made the bug reports and their resolutions available for anyone to scrutinize, long before Java was open source. The “bug parade” is a very useful resource for programmers.
If the main method exits normally, the Java program has the exit code 0, indicating successful completion. To terminate the program with a different exit code, use the System.exit method.
a variant of the println method with no parameters just prints a blank line. You invoke it with the call System.out.println();
System.out also has a print method that doesn’t add a newline character to the output.
3.2. Comments
a third kind of comment can be used to generate documentation automatically. This comment uses a /** to start and a */ to end.
3.3. Data Types
There are eight primitive types in Java.
3.3.1. Integer Types
